>> Scott: Let's get into the actual app,
we're just gonna be cruising through it.
We're gonna make it work now that we
know all the tools so follow along.
We're gonna get this app to work.
We're gonna start with authentication.
We're gonna talk about that and how it
works, and we're gonna implement it and
get it going.
First thing is we need to create our API,
and then,
what you should do is
checkout to server/0.
>> Scott: If you have any commits,
make sure you commit them or
stash them before you checkout.
>> Scott: And one thing to note,
I think we had a question earlier during
the break, is someone had mentioned
in Next.js, Next.js has a config file
where I'm doing a bunch of stuff,
this is really just me adding cores.
If you don't know what cores is,
it's just a way for
us to enable cross-origin
resource sharing for our server,
which allows clients like browsers to
access us if we give them the right.
It basically just lets the server
describe who can access it and
what headers they can use.
So this is just saying
anybody can use this.
Obviously you can still have like
authentication through like,
other means, but this is just just cores.
But someone asked a question about like,
well,
how do I configure a web pack in here?
Well, it's the same.
I don't know exactly, or remember exactly
how you do it with Next.js on web pack,
but it's got to be the same thing.
And the reason they're
asking that is because, so
far, we've been writing our
schemas in a string, but
you can also write your schemas
in a .GraphQL file, right?
And for that file to be used,
you have two ways.
You can read the file using the file
system, I don't recommend doing that in
a serverless environment because the file
system is, it's just not guaranteed.
It's ephemeral.
The paths aren't where you think they are.
So I don't recommend doing the file
system in a serverless environment.
The second way is you can
teach web pack how to load
that file through a custom loader.
So if you do want to make your schema and
a .GraphQL file,
instead of putting it in a string in
a JavaScript file, you can do that.
You just need to configure Next.js
to use the GraphQL loader when
it sees a .GraphQL or .GQL file so
when it when you import that file,
it will basically transform
it into either a string or
realistically a GraphQL
document that you can then use.
So that is a workflow that you can use.
I don't really care to put it in the file,
I actually prefer it in JavaScript
that way I can do dynamic things.
I don't like myself in graphical files,
but a lot of people do.
So, you could totally do that if you want.
And yeah,
you would just configure it here.
Okay, so let's get into it.
As you can see,
you have an API folder that says GraphQL,
there's only one thing in it and
it's route.ts.
There's literally nothing else in this.
So the first step of this is
setting up our GraphQL server.
That was already done for you in the demo,
so this is your first time setting it up.
Let's get that going.
I have the code here for it.
So to set up a GraphQL server,
we need at least two things.
We need a schema and we need a resolver.
Those are the least two
things that we need, right?
So let's make our schema.
You can literally put whatever you want
because we're gonna be making a lot of
this stuff.
So I'm just gonna go make a schema, make
a file inside the GraphQL folder called
schema.ts,
>> Scott: And make a schema.
So I'm just gonna say
export const schema =,
>> Scott: Back ticks like this.
I'm gonna do my comment for GraphQL,
so I get my syntax highlighting and
I'm just gonna make a quick
little schema right quick.
Something to satisfy it so
it actually works.
There we go.
I'm not even gonna make it require it.
So I got my schema,
you can do whatever you want here.
The next thing I need to do, I just need
to make a quick resolver that resolves
that, so I'm gonna do the same thing.
I'm gonna make a file in the same
GraphQL folder, call it resolvers.
>> Scott: And I'm gonna say,
export const resolvers = an object
that has the query type with the field
of me, and it just returns me.
>> Scott: Super simple.
Not that crazy,
you can put whatever you want.
>> Scott: And now we need to bring
it all together inside the route.ts.
So if you've never used Next.js,
you can think of this as like,
this one file is the equivalent,
if you used Express or Django or Flask or
something like that,
this will be the equivalent of like,
you know how you can make
a route verb combination.
So when someone does a get request
to /api/ this, run this code.
Okay, this is like, this file is where
you would set up all the verbs for
this one route at /api/graphql.
So this is the equivalent.
So run this function when someone
does a get request to /api/graphql.
Run this function when someone does
a post request to /api/graphql.
These are the handlers for those verbs
inside of this route, api/graphql.
We need to do some bindings here for
our Apollo service, so
that's what we're gonna do.
You scroll down, I actually have all
the code here on which we need to do.
And I'm gonna walk through
pretty much all of it.
It's a lot simpler just to copy all these
imports than writing them yourself,
I'm just gonna do that.
I think for me, the biggest difference,
what I just did is I had named exports.
So we'll put brackets around my
stuff because they're names.
And I think this one's called the schema
of mine, yours might be different.
So I'll have that.
I'm just going to consolidate my imports.
That's the same imports,
I'm going to get rid of it.
There we go, so we got that.
The next part really is not that
important, it's very framework specific.
This is what, you know,
when we go to the browser,
we go to /api/graphql on the app loads up,
the Apollo Studio?
This is how we get it.
They have a plugin called
Apollo Server plugin landing page,
so long, that's what this is.
This is a landing page for
your GraphQL API, this is what enables it.
So you can honestly just copy that,
this part is really not that important.
And really all I'm doing here is just
like, hey, if you're in production,
this graphRef thing,
this has nothing to do with GraphQL,
this is if you use Apollo's service, for
your GraphQL API to do like tracing or
whatever they give you like a graph or
ref, and you can put that here.
Otherwise, we're on local hosts,
just embed it with auto graphRef and
use the local and
not the production plug-in.
This is really just to
start up that app for us.
Your server will work without this,
you just won't be able to go and
to play with it if you don't add this.
Okay, and then the next part is
the part that really matters.
So first we need to make a server,
we got to pass it our resolvers,
our type definitions which are our schema
and then the plugins, which is this stuff.
So let's do that.
So we'll say const server,
>> Scott: Okay, there we go.
It's for
some reason I can't type at this angle.
Server = new ApolloServer.
We're gonna pass in our resolvers.
We're gonna pass in our plugins,
and then we're gonna pass
in our type definitions,
which for me is called schema.
I guess technically it's not a schema.
I guess technically
the typeDefs together plus
the resolvers is the schema,
but it's the schema.
Cool, so now we have our server.
>> Scott: What we need to do now is
we need to create a handler, right?
So the handler is what
we're gonna replace.
Right now these functions don't do
anything but return a a basic object, so
we need to create a handler and
we can use these startServer and
createNextHandler function from Apollo.
So I'll say,
>> Scott: Handler equals
startServer and CreateNextHandler.
I'm using Typescript here and
I'm just gonna pass in this generic.
A generic is basically like
an argument for types.
So I can say NextRequest, so
that way the request object is
type checked according to Next.js.
It takes the argument of server,
I'm going to pass that in.
>> Scott: So now we have our handler.
>> Scott: There's a second
options argument.
I think I have trouble if I
didn't put an empty object, so
I'm gonna put an empty object.
>> Scott: And then from there,
we just need to supply our handler
to our get in our posts, right?
So we're gonna return handler and
passing the request.
So I'm just gonna copy both of these,
return handler and
then pass in the request.
There we go, now we have a GraphQL server.
Depending on the technology that you use,
like Next.js, or Node,
or Express,
this part is slightly different.
Everything up is the same, it's this
handler part that will be different.
You're always going to create, if you use
Apollo, there's more than one GraphQL
server framework, but if you use Apollo,
this is always the same.
You're always gonna make
a new Apollo server,
you're always gonna pass in these things.
It's this part that's
specific to the framework.
So literally just one line.
>> Scott: This is why I said you don't
really need to know Next.js to get
a benefit from this, this is the only
Next.js specific thing is this.
>> Scott: Okay, any questions on that?
>> Scott: Well, okay, so we did this
right, should be able to run this.
>> Scott: Let's see, npm run.
>> Scott: Hopefully this works.
So now we can go to
the same thing right here,
/GraphQL, and ta-da, it works.
And now if we go look at our schema,
we can see that whatever you're putting
your schema, you should see that there.
Yours is different than mine, you should
see something different, but there we go.
We have a server, we created it,
it's literally gonna be the same for
everything that you make.
So congrats, you now know how to make
a Hello World GraphQL server from scratch,
you graduated.